Title: Alignment is 90% of the Job.
Author: Sinbad Trains
URL: https://youtu.be/fMbPXRhaBLw?si=Ai_geAq4D6FBsI9z
Captured: 2026-09-16

Simbat trains, hope you guys are doing well. It takes a tremendous amount of faith to stick to a process. There is so much gunk that has to be cleared out. There is so much bad conduct or simply inefficient conduct that must be cleared to pave way for the road ahead. I recently was reading psychocybernetics. It's the first time I was revisiting that book since working as a teacher in Los Angeles. And it reiterated to me how important it is to stay in alignment. Alignment is 90% of the job. Alignment is what Abraham Lincoln called sharpening the saw. The majority of the job is sharpening the saw. You think about making a feature film. Someone's given a budget of $100 million. It's not hours of work on set that makes the movie great. If the script isn't good, if the concept isn't good, if the cast was not assembled well, even if there isn't an element of just good luck with marketing and people being receptive to the premise, whatever it might be, if luck is not there, then that $100 million will have gone to waste. And we see that sort of thing over and over again. You know, it's not hours of work. It's not the number of widgets that Ridley Scott can make that makes him who he is. It's the fact that he's Ridley Scott. He's aligned to this thing that is within him. And when he's tapped into it, he makes that thing that no one else can make. It's very frustrating. It's very frustrating because it takes so much courage. It takes so much faith to stay in alignment. Recently, I've even stopped tracking the hours I work every day, like the exact number of hours. I used to tie some portion of my self-worth to the hours of work I do. And then I was reflecting even I was discussing this on our last school call. Where have all of these hours of work gotten me? Seriously, the hours of work that you have done, all it's done is help you make more widgets. [laughter] You make more widgets. Whatever that is, you know, some random SAS AI product that you're shilling for some corporation that you don't believe in. That's what a widget is. Doesn't penetrate the universe at all. And yet, each of us is born a genius to some degree. Don't believe me? Consider this. A squirrel knows to be ready for the winter. Squirrels. A squirrel born in the spring will naturally start just collecting nuts and storing them away for the winter having never in its young life seen a winter and yet it knows instinctively to hoard nuts. What is this? This is sort of a instinct within that creature. Well, like the squirrels and the birds that migrate from here to there as the seasons change. I think every person actually has their own success instinct within them. like this thing that is speaking to you, that's calling out to you to make what is yours and to find success in a way that's true to you. This includes making money. This includes looking good, being hot. Seriously, it shows up in every way, but we do not trust it. You might even be wise to stop consuming any information ever. Not even this YouTube video. Don't consume information. Go purely into instinct. Lately, I've doubled the amount of meditation that I'm doing. I've literally cut hours of effort from exercise, which was a huge thing for me. Deep down, there was actually some sort of fear or trauma about returning to the way I looked in the way that that I was when I was 28 years old, which was heavy. I was like 28% body fat. And I just remember how it felt to be so low energy, but also be invisible to the world, to lose respect for my audience and whatnot. Never wanted to go back to that. So, what happened? Starting in 2022, I started running and I really never stopped. And then over the years I did like five marathons and five half iron mans all in the span of like two or three years. There was never a block in which I was not running, swimming, biking, hours and hours of cardio. Why? Because I was running away from this fear, from this imagination, from this thing from another era of my life in which I was out of alignment. But in doing so, in running from that chase, I was pulling myself out of alignment in a new way. And at the time, the dangerous thing is it felt productive. Felt like I was doing something. It felt like I was accomplishing something. Oh, I ran 730 split miles for 10 miles. I did this half marathon event. I got a 133 at a half marathon. Oh my gosh, I'm I placed third in my age group in this half marathon. Not to take away from all that, but for Nick Hill, what does that have to do with anything? You blitz your brain running a half marathon at breakneck speed. You come home depleted. You're zonked the next day. That's what Nick Bear and all these other people don't show you is that they have to like recuperate half the day because these efforts are so severe. And then you don't have the ability to put on muscle. It even weathers and ages your face. Well, Nick Hill, what do you want to be? I want to work in film. I work in TV shows. I want to get better at cinematography. Even if it doesn't show up in mainstream efforts, I want my YouTube channel to have that sense of majesty. Well, Nikuel, why are you running a half marathon instead of learning Da Vinci Resolve? You could be learning color grading. Maybe it would just make you 1% better. But then you'd have that filmic grain in your content. You could be location scouting new locations. You could be working on your acting. You could be finding another actor, shooting another another scene. There's all these other things I could have done that actually would have genuinely been in alignment towards the final vision. Takes courage, though. I took the marathon path not because I thought the marathon was cool. It's not because it was instinctively true to me. It really was a form of conditioning and it was an easy win. It's like you're playing Legend of Zelda and you collect one of the Po those Dark Soul things in Twilight Princess and you find a Po thing and then you realize there's 50 of these goddamn Poes and you're like, "Oh, maybe I can just collect Po spirits and then I don't have to face Ganondorf. I can just freaking collect Po all day and I'll get all 50 POE." Well, then what? You still haven't beat the game. You still haven't saved the princess. You just been out here doing these side quests collecting PoE. Anything that doesn't come from that source, from that place of alignment is side questing. Now, side questing can be cool. Side questing can be an accelerant. It can give more charisma. But it cannot be the main quest. So easy. It's so easy. It's so scary to face the main quest sometime and you feel tempted to go on and on and on and on these side quests every day. Everything you're just pushing in the same direction. You need to be in alignment before you take a single action. That takes faith. That takes courage. But you know what? You will have more energy. You'll have more steadfastness. And the result you get will be so much better. Now, finally, I've given up Iron Man Marathon. At least I've taken probably a few years long break from it is what I would say. My muscle mass is shooting up. I'm getting stronger than ever. I'm 178 lbs. Oh my gosh. I'm I'm going to hit 180 lbs. The last time I was 180 lbs, I was literally 28% body fat naturally. Now, the one plate overhead press, 135 lbs for five or six reps. It's like I'm like two weeks away from that. that last little bit of muscle that I need to kind of like fill out the frame, look more commanding on camera, it's finally beginning to happen. Courage, alignment. Alignment meant you don't get to run as much. You don't get to spend 3 hours doing a bike ride straight into a brick workout, eating a bunch of, you know, like gels and electrolytes. Your body doesn't know what to do. Okay? You're turning into more and more of an iron man athlete. Nothing wrong with that. Okay? I I still think Iron Man is cool. I think triathlon, marathon, it all definitely gave me something, but it wasn't in alignment with the mission. I'm telling you this truly, it was running away. There is a success instinct within you. Just like the squirrel knows to gather nuts. You know what you need to express. You know, every once in a while I think to myself, Nikil, why are you working on Riverrats? This four-part miniseries. Now, it has consumed two and a half years of my life. Still, in a week's time, we are starting to shoot the third part. I am selling my Iron Man bicycles to pay for production. That's how you know I'm in alignment. I don't need those bicycles anymore. I don't need them. courage, faith, investing in this thing that no one else can do but me. To tell me to not make Riverrats would be to tell me to like change the nature of my sperm. It just is what it is. This is how this is the DNA that you're going to get coming out of me. It's just what's going to be produced. To not finish the film as rinky dink as it is, I don't know where it's going to take me. But I do know that some year from now, maybe it'll be a year from now or a year and a half from now, four parts of this weirdass Irish movie that I made will be finished. It'll be like 2028. The whole thing will be done. and I'll look back on the last four years of my life and I'll say I don't know why I need to do it and now it's gonna unfold. Something is going to be revealed as to why this needed to be done. I really feel like I'm back on the path. You need to be on what is true for you. And the only way the only way to really know if you're on the true path or not is to stay on semen retention to stay heavily meditated and to sleep enough and then to consistently stare at your goals. You know what the goals are, right? Even in different eras of Sinbat trains, I would say it over and over again. You know what the goals are. You know what the goals are in this quarter of my life? I need to make a certain amount of money, not because I have a need for the money. Really, at least not this much. This this amount, I need to make it because I can make it. And it's it's sick to achieve your potential. That tension is really what we need. That tension between this thing that I can grasp, this thing that I can take, knowing I can take it, it should make you feel weird to not go for it. It should make you feel strange. You're like, I should mess you up. In Dune, Paul Trades says to his mom, he says, I do see a way. There is a slim there is a thin way through. There's a narrow way through is what he says. The golden path to save humanity. He doesn't know quite the details, but he's trying to look into the future to see ahead. When you're in alignment, you sort of know like, damn, there is a way through. There's a way through, but you got to stay in sync with this thing. I can't tell you exactly what it is. You know what I mean? Maybe alignment will lead you to a really great corporate company. There's all this negative talk. There's all this negative talk about corporations dating testosterone levels. I really think you should ignore all of that. You know, there is a way forward for you that where you know which what is like the healthiest, most handsome version of you. You'll be able to feel it within you like, "Oh, this these are the elements that I need to work towards to try to get that information from someone else necessarily is like trying to deny your servo mechanism, this instinct within you." Even with content, in the early days of my YouTube coaching program, I would say the main thing you need to focus on at least 50% of the time is market research your titles, which is to say, look on someone else's channel, maybe someone with 2,000 subscribers. Find an overperforming video on their channel. Hey, this this video got 15K. Normally, they get 300 views a video. It must be the title that's giving this person attention because they don't have the pre-built audience yet to get 15K regularly. It's the title that drew people in. At least there's a chance it's the title that drew people in. I would tell them at least 50% of your title should be market researched. Now I'm beginning to feel that the best results from YouTube actually come from alignment. The nature has changed. Market research might actually represent 20 to 30% of my efforts related to YouTube, social media content in general. Sincerely, my best advice to someone working on content, one of the first things you might want to do is meditate, visualize, and see the amount of views you want to get from that video before your eyes. You want to see the amount of views you would get. And I'm telling you, in the past I have done this, the title and the thumbnail, even the image of the thumbnail has come before my eyes. The last time I did this was in 2022. I really wanted a Porsche. Okay? I really wanted a luxury car because I thought it would get me attention from this person I had an interaction with. And one of the points of connection was the fact that my dream car was a Porsche. I was like, I I want a Porsche Cayenne. I especially like the SUV. I know to a lot of people a Porsche SUV is kind of like a mom car, like a rich Pilates mom car. But I wanted that car for myself always because when I was a teacher in LA in the morning, I would wait for the students to come in. And some of the students, they were like the children of like famous directors. Even the director of Burnt. Oh my gosh, I love that movie, by the way. But he would always come in on his Porsche Cayenne. There's so many Porsche Cayenne that these parents would drop off because parents, they need SUVs to handle all these kids. The kids would carpool together and such. you need an SUV. And then Porsche is like high-end enough where everyone knows what it is, but it's not quite Ferrari and Lamborghini where at that point it starts to give like small dick energy to me. It's like, whoa, why' you spend 300 grand on a car? It crosses that line where it's kind of in your face. It's like the Rolex of cars. I wanted a Cayenne and I needed to make the money for it. The only way to make the money for it was to get a million views on a YouTube video. Really, what is what it was? AdSense, sponsorship deals over the cascading next four months. I was like, "All right, if I get a, you know, brand deal that's big enough and if, you know, just get a generate enough business from a video that gets a million views, but I think I sincerely need like a million views." So, I actually went back on the old disciplines. This was 2022. To get locked in on the car, the car. Oh my gosh, the car. The car. The thumbnail came to me. The title came to me. I literally made that exact video. That's the last time I got 1.2 million views on Captain Simbad, the main channel. What was that? Was that widget making? Was that hours of effort? Grind, grind, grind, grind, grind, grind, send the email, my AI SAS product. No, it was sharpening the saw. Visualizing the image of what I wanted really badly. For some people, the image of wanting to hit a certain revenue revenue goal, it's not enough. It's not enough to rev the engine of the mind. You need a [ __ ] luxury car to make yourself hyped up enough. It's not the car. Ultimately, the car was just a distraction. The car was just a thing. It was a It's an object of materialism. It's a hunk of metal at the end of the day. But in that era of my life, it meant something. It was a symbol that was able to rev up my mind. My mind was revved up. And in its revved up state, in its meditated, revved up state, I was able to produce a video that got a million views over the course of four months, that one video generated, I won't say the exact numbers, but it generated a sol amount of business. I was able to get a lease on the car. All right? I was able to get a lease on the car. You got to be aligned. And you know what? In the early days, it's going to feel weird. For the first few months, it's going to be weird. While you're basically siphoning off this old weird, stagnant energy where you were just gyrating, hustling, rushing to get a result and you weren't able to get it. You're going to have to siphon off all of those results. So, in that first month of you doing everything right, it's going to feel weird. You're going to feel like, oh, maybe I'm not doing enough. You know, I don't know why why aren't the results coming. Is there something wrong with me? I've been telling the audience, I've been speaking here on how important sleep is. I look back on my Aura ring today. It's only been 10 or 11 days that my sleep debt has been zero. Then I just went back over the last two years. If you look at the sleep dead chart, anyone who has an Aura ring, look at your sleep debt chart. It it says 3 hours, 5 hours, 9 hours one day. So sleepd deprived. Why? Because you don't see it as a discipline. Why? Because you don't value alignment as much as action. I'd go to bed at midnight. Wake up at 600 or 7 a.m. Oh, maybe it was Oh, marathon prep. Okay, I slept 6 hours. Now I'm going to run 13 miles. What? What is being accomplished? Oh, today I have a half marathon race. wake up, you know, 6 hours of sleep, you know, to know that you can grind through something, you know, for the committed BPN athlete, hybrid athlete. What is being accomplished? Well, you're just sleepd deprived and then overexerting your body, running 13 miles. I'm not knocking it. You know, for some of you, maybe the marathon arc is really what you need to go through. There was value in that. The marathon arc, the iron man arc for for Pete's sake, I did 10 of those events, [laughter] you know. I went I went as if if it was almost like my first goal, that first season where I was really paying attention. grandma's marathon to 3:30 marathon was my biggest I I don't know why the preoccupation with it was immense but the sleep debt was higher. I was constantly like my overall calorie expenditure that it would be like 4,000 calories. I was already like always I was calorie depleted. Could not put on any strength in the gym. Probably looked a little like small on camera, a little weathered honestly. It's great. You know, if it's the marathon is the arc for you that's coming from a place of alignment. I fully support that. There was value in it. But in my efforts for alignment now, now it's only 10 or 11 days where the sleep thing is fully there. The source is true. It's connected. And from that place, something will emerge. But you got to give it three months. My last video I said you got to give it 150 days. That first month, you are just siphoning off the bad blood. This is like some medieval [ __ ] man. Like the leeches. You're getting the leeches on you, man. You got to leech off all that bad blood. Even in some 1970s Bollywood movie where like Amitab Bachan is dying and he's like bleeding out and some girl is crying over him. I want to say it's like Mukadasikand Mukander. Something like that. Okay. He's bleeding out and he's like don't worry about it. This is just bad bad blood. This is just bad blood that's leaving my body. Maybe it was Agnipath. It was some 1970s Bollywood film with Amitab Bachan. All right. If you know, you know. You got to siphon off the bad blood, man. You've been gyating all this blue light late at night. All this vertical form content that you've been consuming for the last few years. Every single chat GPT interaction that you've had is cutting you off from the genius within you. Really, every time you talk to an AI AI prompt, you're just making yourself stupider. You're just cutting off. You're basically giving a huge middle finger to God and saying, "I prefer the robot, dear Lord." Meditate instead. Ask yourself what the answer to your question is is going to come out way better than the prompt. Do you trust it? Do you trust yourself? Do you trust the fact that you are your father's son? That you weren't supposed to be here? None of us were. makes no sense to have made it this far. For you to throw it away to an AI prompt is disgusting. Ask yourself what you need to do. Get into alignment. Operate from that source and you'll go far. Now, it's dangerous for me to be saying all this because I'm only about four weeks in to being locked into the disciplines. Four or five weeks. And I'll be honest, I haven't quite gotten the result. The Hollywood agent, I've been persistent in reaching out. Nothing's come yet. Nothing's come yet with some of these other efforts that I've pursued, even pitching riverats to film festivals and such. even getting grant money for the future iterations of the film or even the fact that I want to make my second film in India and I want to get studio funding for that. I haven't achieved any of this but I have hope and I have faith and there's like an internal knowing an internal knowledge that what I'm saying is real. You have to become inevitable. You have to become penetrative and inevitable. And there's a certain way of living that will do that for you. That's alignment. Alignment. Sleep enough. Meditate. Retention. Always visualize your goals three times a day. Take action from the right state. The right action from the wrong state will not get you where you need to go. You need to take the right action after being in the right state. That's why in Hinduism they would have us say shlokas. I never understood it. My mom would always make me go to gita ashram and it was only when the sarasati vandana was happening which is the goddess of wisdom. She would make me go before her before the altar and pray. The sarasi vandana wisdom wisdom. You don't have the wisdom without alignment. So that's this week's video. We got to stay connected to the source. You got to stay connected to God. You got to stay connected to the divinity within you and go from there because there's a genius within you. Just like the squirrel with the nuts, there's a genius within you that only you know. And I need you to operate from that source and see where it gets you. That's it for this week. Catch you in the next one. Love you guys.